# AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate

* An Elastic Fabric Adapter is an AWS Elastic Network Adapter (ENA) with added capabilities. The EFA lets you apply the scale, flexibility, and elasticity of the AWS Cloud to tightly-coupled HPC apps. It is ideal for tightly coupled app as it uses the Message Passing Interface (MPI).
* On-Demand Capacity Reservations enable you to reserve compute capacity for your Amazon EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone for any duration. This gives you the ability to create and manage Capacity Reservations independently from the billing discounts offered by Savings Plans or Regional Reserved Instances.
* Amazon FSx for Windows file server supports DFS namespaces and DFS replication. This is the best solution for replacing the on-premises infrastructure.
* The AWS Storage Gateway Hardware Appliance is a physical, standalone, validated server configuration for on-premises deployments. It comes pre-loaded with Storage Gateway software, and provides all the required CPU, memory, network, and SSD cache resources for creating and configuring File Gateway, Volume Gateway, or Tape Gateway.
* AWS recommend using separate queues when you need to provide prioritization of work. The logic can then be implemented at the application layer to prioritize the queue for the paid photos over the queue for the free photos.
* AWS Global Accelerator uses the vast, congestion-free AWS global network to route TCP and UDP traffic to a healthy application endpoint in the closest AWS Region to the user.
This means it will intelligently route traffic to the closest point of presence (reducing latency). Seamless failover is ensured as AWS Global Accelerator uses anycast IP address which means the IP does not change when failing over between regions so there are no issues with client caches having incorrect entries that need to expire.
* With Amazon CloudFront you can set the price class to determine where in the world the content will be cached.
* You cannot create an encrypted Read Replica from an unencrypted master DB instance. You also cannot enable encryption after launch time for the master DB instance. Therefore, you must create a new master DB by taking a snapshot of the existing DB, encrypting it, and then creating the new DB from the snapshot. You can then create the encrypted cross-region Read Replica of the master DB.
* A custom origin can point to an on-premises server and CloudFront is able to cache content for dynamic websites. CloudFront can provide performance optimizations for custom origins even if they are running on on-premises servers.
* Amazon RDS creates an SSL certificate and installs the certificate on the DB instance when Amazon RDS provisions the instance. These certificates are signed by a certificate authority. The SSL certificate includes the DB instance endpoint as the Common Name (CN) for the SSL certificate to guard against spoofing attacks. You can download a root certificate from AWS that works for all Regions or you can download Region-specific intermediate certificates.
* To apply the restrictions across multiple member accounts you must use a Service Control Policy (SCP) in the AWS Organization.
* General Purpose SSD (gp2) volumes offer cost-effective storage that is ideal for a broad range of workloads. These volumes deliver single-digit millisecond latencies and the ability to burst to 3,000 IOPS for extended periods of time.
* You can set up CloudFront with origin failover for scenarios that require high availability. To get started, you create an origin group with two origins: a primary and a secondary. If the primary origin is unavailable or returns specific HTTP response status codes that indicate a failure, CloudFront automatically switches to the secondary origin.
* When you hibernate an instance, Amazon EC2 signals the operating system to perform hibernation (suspend-to-disk). Hibernation saves the contents from the instance memory (RAM) to your Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) root volume. Amazon EC2 persists the instance's EBS root volume and any attached EBS data volumes.
* The most reliable and time-efficient solution that keeps the data secure is to use AWS DataSync and synchronize the data from the NAS device directly to Amazon S3. This should take place over an AWS Direct Connect connection to ensure reliability, speed, and security.
* AWS physical Snowball Edge device will provide much more inbuilt compute and storage. This negates the need to rely on a stable connection.
* AWS DataSync can be used to move large amounts of data online between on-premises storage and Amazon S3 or Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS). DataSync eliminates or automatically handles many of these tasks, including scripting copy jobs, scheduling and monitoring transfers, validating data, and optimizing network utilization.
* Though there is no minimum duration when storing data in S3 Standard, you cannot transition to Standard IA within 30 days.
* AWS PrivateLink provides private connectivity between virtual private clouds (VPCs), supported AWS services, and your on-premises networks without exposing your traffic to the public internet.
* The most resilient solution for AWS Direct Connect (DX) is to configure DX connections at multiple DX locations. This ensures that any issues impacting a single DX location do not affect availability of the network connectivity to AWS.
* Each Snowball contains up to 80TB of usable storage.
* An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for your instance. This storage is located on disks that are physically attached to the host computer. Instance store is ideal for temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content, or for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load-balanced pool of web servers.
* Accounts can be migrated between organizations. To do this you must have root or IAM access to both the member and master accounts. Resources will remain under the control of the migrated account.
* VPCs can be shared among multiple AWS accounts. Resources can then be shared amongst those accounts. However, to restrict access so that consumers cannot connect to other instances in the VPC the best solution is to use PrivateLink to create an endpoint for the application. The endpoint type will be an interface endpoint and it uses an NLB in the shared services VPC.
* Amazon FSx for Lustre is ideal for high performance computing (HPC) workloads running on Linux instances. FSx for Lustre provides a native file system interface and works as any file system does with your Linux operating system.
* The AWS Network Firewall is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy essential network protections for all your Amazon Virtual Private Clouds, and you can then use domain list rules to block HTTP or HTTPS traffic to domains identified as low-reputation, or that are known or suspected to be associated with malware or botnets.
* AWS DataSync is an online data transfer service that simplifies, automates, and accelerates copying large amounts of data between on-premises systems and AWS Storage services, as well as between AWS Storage services.
* An AWS Storage Gateway File Gateway provides your applications a file interface to seamlessly store files as objects in Amazon S3, and access them using industry standard file protocols. This removes the files from the on-premises NAS device and provides a method of directly mounting the file share for on-premises servers and clients.
* Amazon RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available database proxy for Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) that makes applications more scalable, more resilient to database failures, and more secure. Amazon RDS Proxy allows applications to pool and share connections established with the database, improving database efficiency and application scalability. Amazon RDS Proxy can be enabled for most applications with no code changes so this solution requires the least amount of code changes.
* Amazon FSx for Windows File Server makes it easy for you to launch and scale reliable, performant, and secure shared file storage for your applications and end users. With Amazon FSx, you can launch highly durable and available file systems that can span multiple availability zones (AZs) and can be accessed from up to thousands of compute instances using the industry-standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol.
* Amazon GuardDuty gives you access to built-in detection techniques that are developed and optimized for the cloud. The detection algorithms are maintained and continuously improved upon by AWS Security. The primary detection categories include reconnaissance, instance compromise, account compromise, and bucket compromise.
* Scheduled scaling allows you to set your own scaling schedule.
* Amazon QLDB has a built-in immutable journal that stores an accurate and sequenced entry of every data change. The journal is append-only, meaning that data can only be added to a journal, and it cannot be overwritten or deleted.
* A gateway endpoint is used for Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB. You specify a gatewa
* Aurora Replicas are independent endpoints in an Aurora DB cluster, best used for scaling read operations and increasing availability. Up to 15 Aurora Replicas can be distributed across the Availability Zones that a DB cluster spans within an AWS Region.
* Service control policies (SCPs) offer central control over the maximum available permissions for all accounts in your organization, allowing you to ensure your accounts stay within your organization’s access control guidelines.
* Use CloudWatch Container Insights to collect, aggregate, and summarize metrics and logs from your containerized applications and microservices.
* Lambda@Edge is a feature of Amazon CloudFront that lets you run code closer to users of your application, which improves performance and reduces latency. Lambda@Edge runs code in response to events generated by the Amazon CloudFront.
* Amazon Route 53 health checks monitor the health and performance of your web applications, web servers, and other resources.
* AWS Lake Formation is a service that makes it easy to set up a secure data lake in days.
* A VPG is used to setup an AWS VPN which you can use in combination with Direct Connect to encrypt all data that traverses the Direct Connect link.
* Amazon Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, auto-scaling configuration for Amazon Aurora. The database automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales capacity up or down based on application needs. This is an ideal database solution for infrequently-used applications.
* With target tracking scaling policies, you select a scaling metric and set a target value. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling creates and manages the CloudWatch alarms that trigger the scaling policy and calculates the scaling adjustment based on the metric and the target value.
* With S3 Object Lock, you can store objects using a write-once-read-many (WORM) model. In compliance mode, a protected object version can't be overwritten or deleted by any user, including the root user in your AWS account.
* AWS Batch Multi-node parallel jobs enable you to run single jobs that span multiple Amazon EC2 instances. With AWS Batch multi-node parallel jobs, you can run large-scale, tightly coupled, high performance computing applications and distributed GPU model training without the need to launch, configure, and manage Amazon EC2 resources directly.
* You cannot store credentials in KMS, it is used for creating and managing encryption keys.
* AWS Private 5G is a managed service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale your own private cellular network, with all required hardware and software provided by AWS.
* Amazon MQ is a managed message broker service for Apache ActiveMQ that makes it easy to set up and operate message brokers in the cloud.
* er application that stores data in S3. With S3 Access Points, customers can create unique access control policies for each access point to easily control access to shared datasets. You can also control access point usage using AWS Organizations support for AWS SCPs.
* AWS AppSync is a serverless GraphQL and Pub/Sub API service that simplifies building modern web and mobile applications.
* Amazon SageMaker allows you to build, train, and deploy machine learning models for any use case with fully managed infrastructure, tools, and workflows. AWS Data Exchange allows you to gain access to third party data sets across Automotive, Financial Services, Gaming, Healthcare & Life Sciences, Manufacturing, Marketing, Media & Entertainment, Retail, and many more industries.
* Redis authentication tokens enable Redis to require a token (password) before allowing clients to execute commands, thereby improving data security.
* AWS License Manager makes it easier to manage your software licenses from vendors such as Microsoft, SAP, Oracle, and IBM across AWS and on-premises environments. AWS License Manager lets administrators create customized licensing rules that mirror the terms of their licensing agreements.
* Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) is a scalable, highly available, and managed Apache Cassandra–compatible database service.
* An IPSec VPN connection and use the same BGP prefix is the MOST cost-effective solution to provide a backup for the Direct Connect connection.
* By default, your instance is enabled for basic monitoring. You can optionally enable detailed monitoring. After you enable detailed monitoring, the Amazon EC2 console displays monitoring graphs with a 1-minute period for the instance.
* You define when Amazon EFS transitions files an IA storage class by setting a lifecycle policy. A file system has one lifecycle policy that applies to the entire file system. If a file is not accessed for the period of time defined by the lifecycle policy that you choose, Amazon EFS transitions the file to the IA storage class that is applicable to your file system.
* To enforce object encryption, create an S3 bucket policy that denies any S3 Put request that does not include the x-amz-server-side-encryption header.
* VPC sharing makes use of the AWS Resource Access Manager (AWS RAM) service. It enables the sharing of VPCs across accounts. In this model, the account that owns the VPC (owner) shares one or more subnets with other accounts (participants) that belong to the same organization from AWS Organizations.
* AWS Control Tower automates the setup of a new landing zone using best practices blueprints for identity, federated access, and account structure.
* You can create a CloudTrail trail in the management account with the organization trails option enabled and this will create the trail in all AWS accounts within the organization.
* Patch Manager automates the process of patching Windows and Linux managed instances. Use this feature of AWS Systems Manager to scan your instances for missing patches or scan and install missing patches. You can install patches individually or to large groups of instances by using Amazon EC2 tags.
* AWS Systems Manager Run command is designed to run commands across a large group of instances without having to SSH into all your instances and run the same command multiple times.
* AWS Systems Manager Patch Manager is designed to apply patches to EC2 instances and is not designed to run commands across a large group of instances.
* With MySQL, authentication is handled by AWSAuthenticationPlugin—an AWS-provided plugin that works seamlessly with IAM to authenticate your IAM users.
* CloudFront signed cookies are a method to control who can access your content.
* You can configure a CloudWatch Logs log group to stream data it receives to your Amazon OpenSearch Service cluster in near real-time through a CloudWatch Logs subscription.
* Amazon EBS fast snapshot restore (FSR) enables you to create a volume from a snapshot that is fully initialized at creation. This eliminates the latency of I/O operations on a block when it is accessed for the first time. Volumes that are created using fast snapshot restore instantly deliver all their provisioned performance.
* You can share your CloudWatch dashboards with people who do not have direct access to your AWS account.
* A virtual private gateway is a logical, fully redundant distributed edge routing function that sits at the edge of your VPC. You must create a VPG in your VPC before you can establish an AWS Managed site-to-site VPN connection. The other end of the connection is the customer gateway which must be established on the customer side of the connection.
* Amazon EKS supports using AWS KMS keys for envelope encryption of Kubernetes secrets.
* AWS Firewall Manager simplifies your administration and maintenance tasks across multiple accounts and resources for a variety of protections, including AWS WAF, AWS Shield Advanced, Amazon VPC security groups, AWS Network Firewall, and Amazon Route 53 Resolver DNS Firewall.
* Gateway Load Balancers enable you to deploy, scale, and manage virtual appliances, such as firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention systems, and deep packet inspection systems. It combines a transparent network gateway (that is, a single entry and exit point for all traffic) and distributes traffic while scaling your virtual appliances with the demand.
* AWS Amplify simplifies the process of hosting web applications with automated deployment processes. It also integrates with CloudFront, providing a global content delivery network to efficiently serve the game interface.
* Long Polling will eliminate empty responses by allowing Amazon SQS to wait until a message is available in a queue before sending a response.
* You can use VPC Flow Logs to capture detailed information about the traffic going to and from your Elastic Load Balancer. Create a flow log for each network interface for your load balancer. There is one network interface per load balancer subnet.
* In general, when your object size reaches 100 MB, you should consider using multipart uploads instead of uploading the object in a single operation.
* AWS Service Catalog enables organizations to create and manage catalogs of IT services that are approved for use on AWS. It allows centrally managed service portfolios, which clients can use on a self-service basis.
* EMR utilizes a hosted Hadoop framework running on Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3.
* AWS Transfer Family provides fully managed support for file transfers directly into and out of Amazon S3 using SFTP. Storing incoming files in S3 Standard offers high durability, availability, and performance object storage for frequently accessed data.
* Connection draining is enabled by default and provides a period of time for existing connections to close cleanly. When connection draining is in action an CLB will be in the status “InService: Instance deregistration currently in progress”.
* You can specify the instance store volumes for your instance only when you launch an instance. You can’t attach instance store volumes to an instance after you’ve launched it.
* There is no direct way to change the encryption state of an EBS volume.
* A custom NACL denies all traffic both inbound and outbound by default.
* Default security groups have inbound allow rules (allowing traffic from within the group) whereas custom security groups do not have inbound allow rules (all inbound traffic is denied by default). All outbound traffic is allowed by default in custom and default security groups.
* For an ALB the possible protocols are HTTP and HTTPS. The default is the HTTP protocol.
* The unit of measure for Aurora Serverless v2 is the Aurora capacity unit (ACU). Each ACU includes about 2 gibibytes (GiB) of memory, along with the necessary CPU and networking.
* With Lambda SnapStart for Java, Lambda initializes functions as new versions are published. Lambda then takes a Firecracker microVM snapshot of the memory and disk state of the initialized execution environment, encrypts the snapshot, and caches it for low-latency access.
* The feature mechanisms that enable the management of account drift are already built into the Control Tower.
* In S3 object lock governance mode, users can’t overwrite or delete an object version or alter its lock settings unless they have special permissions. In compliance mode, a protected object version can’t be overwritten or deleted by any user, including the root user in your AWS account.
* You can authenticate to your DB instance using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) database authentication. IAM database authentication works with MySQL and PostgreSQL. With this authentication method, you don’t need to use a password when you connect to a DB instance. Instead, you use an authentication token.
* Amazon API Gateway provides throttling at multiple levels including global and by a service call. Throttling limits can be set for standard rates and bursts.
